In the last video, we set up a subscription inside of our listener, and we said that any time we received
a message over the channel of Ticket Colon created, we were going to simply console.log.
Message received.
If we go back over to our terminal, we can select the publisher window and put in rows a couple of
times to restart this thing.
And every single time we do, we are publishing a brand new event and clearly the listener is receiving
that every single time.
But right now we're just doing a very simple console.log of message received.
Let's try to print out some more information about the message that was actually received.
In other words, let's actually access the data inside there and try to console, log it out.
So back inside my listener file, I'm going to take a look at that callback function right there.
So we receive a argument of message to this thing, which we usually abbreviate simply as MSG.
If we hover over that right now, TypeScript thinks that it is of type any.
We're going to give TypeScript a little bit of help.
We're going to tell TypeScript that this is not of type any.
Instead, it is something of type message.
To do so, we're going to first import the message type from the Node Nat streaming library.
So at the very top we will import message like so.
This is an interface that's going to describe the type of this argument right here.
So I'm going to put in a type annotation of message like so.
And then going to do a command click on message so we can take a look at the type definition for it
so we can understand what properties are available inside their.
That's going to take us to the type definition file for the node net streaming library that we already
looked at one or two videos ago.
Now, just so you know, there is documentation around node net streaming over on NPM, but a lot of
the documentation on here is really about some nitty gritty aspects of the library as opposed to the
individual methods that we have access to.
So to get some actual documentation and understand the different methods, properties and so on, do
we have access to we're going to spend a lot of time looking at the type definition file.
So inside of here, we can see exactly what a message is.
A message is going to have a couple of different properties associated with it.
All of these are different functions that you and I are going to call to access some information included
in the message.
Some of these different methods we don't really care about at all.
But there are a couple that are extremely important for us.
At this point, I want to point out two or three that are really important.
The first one is get subject right here.
Get subject is going to return the name of the channel that this message just came out of.
Now, this one isn't super important for us because, well, we already know the name of the channel
because we just subscribe to it.
Right?
2 seconds ago, if we called the git subject method on message, we would just get back that right there,
that same exact string.
It's just the name of the channel that we got the message from.
So a little bit more relevant for us are the methods of git sequence and get data.
Git sequence is going to return the number of this event in.
All events start off at number one.
In other words, the very first event that we emit on a channel will be assigned a sequence number of
one.
The second event we emit on the channel will be given a sequence number of two, three, four, and
so on.
The other method that's very important is get data.
So this is going to return the actual data that's included inside the message or what we refer to as
an event.
So in our case, back inside of our publisher, we have some data that we're sending inside of this
message of some tickets.
So if we try to pull our data using that get data method out of the message inside of our listener,
we should get back something that looks like this right here.
Do you remember that all information in that streaming is exchanged as strings for us?
And so we threw this object in as JSON into that event.
And so if we tried to extract information back inside of our listener from this message, we're going
to get that same object.
But in JSON form, which just means we're going to have to run a JSON pass on it.
And the other thing I want to point out is that the git data method is going to return either a string
or a buffer.
So as far as TypeScript is concerned, TypeScript wants us to make sure that we're actually working
with the string when we call get data.
So with all this in mind, let's go back to our listener inside of our little callback right there.
I'm going to remove that console log.
I'm going to pull our data out of the message.
And so, again, if we now hover over this thing, it's going to tell us that it's either a string or
a buffer.
So we have to put in a little type check to make sure we're actually working with the string.
We're not really going to ever be worrying or dealing with buffers.
For us, it's just about always going to be a string.
We're just putting in this check right here to make TypeScript happy.
So we'll say if type of data.
Is this string.
Now let's go ahead and try to parse it and console.log out some information.
So I'm going to do a console.log.
I'm going to put a template string inside of here.
Console.log received event number.
And I'm going to try to print out the number of this event or its sequence number.
So I'll do some string interpolation and inside there I'll put in MSG target sequence.
And then a comma right after say it with data.
And then I'll try to parse the data.
From the JSON that it currently is.
So I'll do another bit of string interpolation and JSON parse data.
I'm going to save this just so it wraps that string around.
There we go.
All right, so let's make sure we save this.
We're then going to go back over to our terminal and test it out.
So as soon as our listener restarts, well, we have not yet received an event.
If we want to test this thing, we need to publish another event.
So we'll go back over to the publisher window.
But in the press hit enter and now we'll see right there received event 18 with data and unfortunately
our data was turned into object object.
Just an oddity of console logging with Node.js.
Rather than parsing the JSON out, let's just leave it as a string so we can make sure that the raw
data is inside there.
So back at this console log, I will remove the JSON parse and just console log the data itself.
I'll save this.
Go back over.
I'm going to emit another event.
By doing another RS on the left and that's better.
So now I see it received event number 19 with that data.
If I start to publish a couple more events by restarting the publisher, you're going to see that that
sequence number gets incremented every single time.
So event number 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, and so on.
Cool.
All right.
So just a little bit more of terminology and how we work with the incoming message.
I did promise at the end of the last video that things were about to get a bit crazy.
It doesn't seem like it yet.
Right.
Okay.
We'll just give you another video or two.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.